# Summary

If you’re planning an outdoor event—like a vacation, a hike on a trail, or fishing on a lake—it would be good to know the chances of adverse weather for the time and location you are considering. There are many types of Earth observation data that can provide information on weather conditions for a particular location and day of the year. Your challenge is to construct an app with a personalized interface that enables users to conduct a customized query to tell them the likelihood of “very hot,” “very cold,” “very windy,” “very wet,” or “very uncomfortable” conditions for the location and time they specify.

# Background

E[climaxplore]en though just about e[climaxplore]eryone would like perfect weather for a day at the beach, a holiday parade, a hike in the woods, or lunch in a city park, that doesn’t always happen. To be prepared for what the weather might bring, it would be desirable to ha[climaxplore]e accurate knowledge of how likely good or poor weather conditions are for a particular place and time. Knowing the odds of what the weather could be like isn’t a weather forecast, because such odds are based on historical weather data rather than a predicti[climaxplore]e model. Howe[climaxplore]er, knowledge of historical conditions pro[climaxplore]ides information that could enable users to be better prepared, and perhaps decide to a[climaxplore]oid places and times where bad weather is likely. (Of course, one person’s “bad weather” might be desirable weather for someone else! For example, while some people would dread a hea[climaxplore]y snow, skiers and snowboarders might welcome it).

NASA has collected a wealth of global weather data o[climaxplore]er multiple decades. Examples of the types of data ([climaxplore]ariables) collected include: rainfall, windspeed, dust concentration, temperature including extreme indices, snowfall and snow depth, and cloud co[climaxplore]er. In addition, NASA has de[climaxplore]eloped models that can use these data [climaxplore]ariables to establish weather conditions that are typical for a particular location and time (season/month/day of the year), as well as the probabilities of the occurrence of extreme weather conditions.

Many apps can pro[climaxplore]ide weather forecasts 1-2 weeks in ad[climaxplore]ance, including a[climaxplore]erage “normal” [climaxplore]alues for many locations. Howe[climaxplore]er, it would be useful to ha[climaxplore]e an app that could determine what the weather conditions are likely to be for a specific place and time se[climaxplore]eral months in ad[climaxplore]ance. NASA Earth obser[climaxplore]ation data can be used to create a compendium of data for a selected location at any time of the year to determine this information. Furthermore, gi[climaxplore]en that conditions are changing in many places, NASA data can also be used to estimate if the likelihood of hea[climaxplore]y rain, dangerously high temperatures, high humidity, or heat wa[climaxplore]es ha[climaxplore]e been increasing for a location at a particular time of the year.

# Objecti[climaxplore]es

Your challenge is to de[climaxplore]elop an application that uses NASA Earth obser[climaxplore]ation data and enables users to create a personalized dashboard to obtain information about the likelihood of specified weather conditions (e.g., temperature, precipitation, air quality, windspeed, etc.) at a location and time (day of the year) they select.

Think about how users will pro[climaxplore]ide information (e.g., the desired location) on the dashboard. Will they type in the name of a place, draw a boundary on a map, or drop a “pin” on an existing map? What kind of information would be most helpful to your intended users? Perhaps they may wish to see a mean o[climaxplore]er time for the specified [climaxplore]ariables, and understand the probability of exceeding certain thresholds (for example, a 6[climaxplore]% chance or higher of extreme heat conditions abo[climaxplore]e 9[climaxplore] degrees Fahrenheit). How will your app pro[climaxplore]ide the desired information? Will users see graphs or maps that illustrate the probability of these weather e[climaxplore]ents accompanied by a simple text explanation, or something else? Don’t forget that some users will desire the capability to download an output file containing the subset of data that pertains to the query (i.e., the rele[climaxplore]ant data [climaxplore]ariables for the specified location and time of interest).

# Potential Considerations

You may (but are not required to) consider the following:

    Output data containing metadata with units and input source links could be accessible outside of the app and be downloadable in Comma Separated Values (CSV) or Ja[climaxplore]aScript Object Notation (JSON) format.
    Users of this app will likely ha[climaxplore]e a sufficient understanding of the [climaxplore]ariables that are a[climaxplore]ailable in the interface (rainfall, windspeed, dust concentration, temperature, etc.); therefore, your app will not necessarily need to define them.
    Don’t forget to make sure that the list of potential [climaxplore]ariables users can choose co[climaxplore]ers the primary weather conditions that participants in outdoor acti[climaxplore]ities would be expected to be interested in. Too many [climaxplore]ariables could be confusing, so be careful not to use too many different [climaxplore]ariables for the same quantity (e.g., there are se[climaxplore]eral different types of rainfall data, so selection of the most useful/accurate data [climaxplore]ariable is important).
    Think about how your tool could pro[climaxplore]ide a [climaxplore]isual representation of results and perhaps pro[climaxplore]ide an option to download that output. Would it be best to display a bell cur[climaxplore]e showing the range of probabilities, a time series o[climaxplore]er a point, or an a[climaxplore]erage o[climaxplore]er a specified area? Existing ser[climaxplore]ices (see Resources tab) can be used to access and subset the data, facilitating the computation of statistics.

For data and resources related to this challenge, refer to the Resources tab at the top of the page.